# Bachelor's thesis about detecting click fraud using ML

Warsaw School of Economics
BSc. Quantitative Methods in Economics

Supervisor: PhD Małgorzata Wrzosek

Summary:

The phenomenon of false clicks poses a serious problem in digital marketing, causing significant budget losses for advertisers and contributing to low reliability of campaign effectiveness measures. The aim of this study was to construct a machine learning-based tool that enables the reduction of this phenomenon by identifying potential advertising fraudsters. Data from a Chinese marketing service provider, concerning ad clicks and app downloads after these clicks, referred to as conversions, were used to build the tool. For analysis purposes, the original dataset was transformed to include information about the repetitiveness of clicks over time. A classification model was constructed using the LightGBM algorithm, and XGBoost was used for comparison of the model's effectiveness. Results from the classification model, in the form of average conversion probabilities after ad clicks for a user and the number of clicks generated by the user over time, served as two decision criteria for this tool. In this way, the constructed decision rule allowed for the flagging of users as potential fraudsters, contributing to the labeling of a significant portion of clicks as false. The use of this decision rule for filtering out advertising fraudsters over a longer period allows for the reduction of negative consequences of false click phenomenon.
